# README

Slack-inspired, single-page chat app with a RESTful Ruby on Rails API and PostgreSQL backend that serves JSON data to a React / Redux front-end.

[Lax Live][live]

### Technologies & Gems
- `Ruby on Rails` - back-end
- `PostgreSQL` - database
- `React` - front-end rendering
- `Redux` - front-end state management
- `jQuery` - AJAX requests and DOM manipulation
- `Pusher` - real-time chat and notifications
- `AWS S3` - cloud storage for user avatars
- `jbuilder gem` - data curation on back-end
- `figaro gem` - secure handling of API keys
- `paperclip gem` - used with ActiveRecord to allow models to store files easily
- `bcrypt gem` - used for custom authentication logic

## Features & Implementation

### Authentication

Lax has custom authentication logic developed from scratch using the BCrypt gem and hashing algorithm. User passwords are digested and stored in
the database as hashes that are used by the SessionsController to manage login/logout logic. On successful login, each user is assigned a url-safe session
token generated by the SecureRandom gem which is then stored in the current user's cookies to allow for current session management.

### Live Features

Live chat features are implemented using the Pusher API which allows for real-time, bidirectional communication via WebSockets. User actions on the front-end fire
AJAX requests that in turn trigger events on the back-end that are braodcast to all subscribers who are bound to those events. This gives users the ability to
experience updates without the need to refresh the page.

### Optimized Data Handling

To ensure good responsiveness, selective AJAX requests are used to fetch only the data for the current active channel and processing, where necessary, is done
mostly in the back-end to leverage the server's resources. In addition, eager loading through associations is used to avoid N+1 queries and to decrease the overhead
associated with connecting to the database multiple times.

### Direct Messages

In order to simplify the schema, and reduce the number of tables in the database, Direct Messages and Public Channels are represented in the same table
(`chatrooms`) and distinguished by the `private` column which by default is set to `false`. A DM is simply a chatroom with the private column set to `true`.

### AWS S3 Storage

Amazons S3 provides cloud storage for user uploaded avatar files and ensures that as the user base grows, the application and its storage needs will
be able to scale efficiently.

## Future Direction

* [X] Message Search
* [X] Live Notifications
* [X] Message Formatting
* [X] GIF Support
* [X] Emoticon Support

[live]: http://laxapp.online
